= Documentation for OAuth Application Management feature

The +oauth_application_management+ feature provides OAuth Client Application Management interfaces, so users are able to create/read/edit their own applications.

This feature depends on the oauth_base feature.

== Auth Value Methods

oauth_application_required_params :: fields required when submitting a new client application, <tt>%w[name description scopes homepage_url redirect_uri client_secret]</tt> by default.
oauth_application_client_id_param: form parameter for a client application client id, <tt>client_id</tt> by default.
oauth_application_client_secret_param: form parameter for a client application client secret, <tt>client_secret</tt> by default.
oauth_application_redirect_uri_param: form parameter for a client application redirect URI, <tt>redirect_uri</tt> by default.
oauth_application_name_param: form parameter for a client application name, <tt>name</tt> by default.
oauth_application_description_param: form parameter for a client application description, <tt>description</tt> by default.
oauth_application_scopes_param: form parameter for a client application scopes, <tt>scopes</tt> by default.
oauth_application_homepage_url_param: form parameter for a client application homepage URL, <tt>homepage_url</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_id_pattern :: pattern matcher to retrieve the client application ID from the URL, <tt>Integer</tt> by default (must respond to "match").
oauth_applications_oauth_grants_path :: URL sub-path used for a client application's oauth grants views, <tt>"oauth-tokens"</tt> by default
invalid_url_message :: error description for the "invalid_url" OAuth error code, <tt>"Invalid URL"</tt> by default.
null_error_message :: error description for the "null_error" OAuth error code, <tt>"is not filled"</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_per_page :: max number of oauth applications to list in the oauth applications route.
oauth_grants_per_page :: max number of oauth grants to list in the routes listing oauth tokens.

new_oauth_application_page_title :: Title for the new OAuth application form.
oauth_application_page_title :: Title for an OAuth application page.
oauth_applications_page_title :: Title for the OAuth applications page.
oauth_application_oauth_grants_page_title :: Title for the OAuth grants page for a given application.

oauth_applications_client_id_label :: Form label for the oauth application client ID.
oauth_applications_name_label :: Form label for the oauth application name.
oauth_applications_client_secret_label :: Form label for the oauth application client secret.
oauth_applications_description_label :: Form label for the oauth application description.
oauth_applications_homepage_url_label :: Form label for the oauth application homepage URL.
oauth_applications_redirect_uri_label :: Form label for the oauth application redirect URI.
oauth_applications_scopes_label :: Form label for the oauth application scopes.
oauth_applications_contacts_label :: Form label for the oauth application contacts.
oauth_applications_jwks_label :: Form label for the oauth application JSON Web Keys.
oauth_applications_jwks_uri_label :: Form label for the oauth application URI where to load JSON Web Keys from.
oauth_applications_policy_uri_label :: Form label for the oauth application Policy URI.
oauth_applications_tos_uri_label :: Form label for the oauth application Terms of Service URI.

oauth_grants_expires_in_label :: Label for the oauth grant expires in property.
oauth_grants_revoked_at_label :: Label for the oauth grant revocation date.
oauth_grants_refresh_token_label :: Label for the oauth grant refresh token.
oauth_grants_token_label :: Label for the oauth grant.
oauth_grants_type_label :: Label for the oauth grant type.

oauth_application_button :: Label of OAuth application form button.
oauth_grant_revoke_button :: Label for the grant revoke button.

oauth_application_client_id_param :: Form input for the oauth application client ID.
oauth_application_client_secret_param :: Form input for the oauth application client secert.
oauth_application_description_param :: Form input for the oauth application description.
oauth_application_homepage_url_param :: Form input for the oauth application homepage URL.
oauth_application_name_param :: Form input for the oauth application name.
oauth_application_redirect_uri_param :: Form input for the oauth application redirect URI.
oauth_application_scopes_param :: Form input for the oauth application scopes.

oauth_applications_route :: the route for accessing oauth applications, defaults to +oauth-applications+.

create_oauth_application_error_flash :: The flash error to display when there were submission errors creating an Oauth application.
create_oauth_application_notice_flash :: The flash message to display when an Oauth application is created successfully.

oauth_no_applications_text :: Lead text when applications list is empty.
oauth_no_grants_text :: Lead text when grants list is empty.

== Auth Methods

oauth_application_path :: URL sub-path used for a client application view.
before_create_oauth_application :: Run arbitrary code before creating an oauth application (through the application endpoint).
after_create_oauth_application :: Run arbitrary code after creating an oauth application (through the application endpoint).
oauth_applications_view :: The HTML of the Oauth applications dashboard.
oauth_application_view :: The HTML of an Oauth application page.
new_oauth_application_view :: The HTML of a new Oauth application form.
oauth_application_oauth_grants_view :: The HTML of the Oauth application grants dashboard.