= Documentation for OAuth JWT Secured Authorization Request feature

The +oauth_jwt_secured_authorization_request+ feature implements support for the JWT-Secured Authorization Request (JAR)

https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc9101

This feature depends on the oauth_authorize_base and oauth_jwt_base features.

== Value Methods

oauth_require_request_uri_registration :: whether client applications are required to define "request_uris", <tt>false</tt> by default.
oauth_require_signed_request_object :: whether client applications are required to sign the request object, <tt>false</tt> by default.
oauth_request_object_signing_alg_allow_none :: whether "none" is accepted as a valid request object signing alg, <tt>false</tt> by default.

oauth_applications_request_uris_column :: the db column where the allowed request uris are stored, <tt>:request_uris</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_require_signed_request_object_column :: the db column storing whether request signed object is required for the oauth application, <tt>:require_signed_request_object</tt> by default.

oauth_applications_request_object_encryption_alg_column :: db column where to store the encryption algorithm used for the request object JWT for the oauth application, <tt>:request_object_encryption_alg</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_request_object_encryption_enc_column :: db column where to store the encryption method used for the request object JWT for the oauth application, <tt>:request_object_encryption_enc</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_request_object_signing_alg_column :: db column where to store the signing algorithm used for the request object JWT for the oauth application, <tt>:request_object_signing_alg</tt> by default.

oauth_invalid_request_object_message :: error description for the "invalid_request" OAuth error code, <tt>"request object is invalid"</tt> by default.