= Documentation for OAuthBase feature

The +oauth_base+ feature implements all basic functionality in order to set up an authorization server, which can emit and verify tokens.

https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc6749

It alternatively can set up a resource server.

== Auth Value Methods

oauth_application_scopes :: default scopes to assign to a client application, <tt>["profile.read"]</tt> by default.
oauth_token_type :: type of the generated access token, <tt>"bearer"</tt> by default.
oauth_grant_expires_in :: The number of seconds an oauth grant is valid after creation, <tt>5 minutes</tt> by default.
oauth_access_token_expires_in :: The number of seconds an oauth token is valid after creation, <tt>5 minutes</tt> by default.
oauth_refresh_token_expires_in :: The number of seconds a refresh token is valid after creation, <tt>1 year</tt> by default.
oauth_refresh_token_protection_policy :: protection policy for the refresh token (<tt>rotation</tt> by default).
oauth_scope_separator :: character used to separate scopes in the db field value, white-space by default.
oauth_response_mode :: default response mode (<tt>query</tt> by default).
oauth_token_endpoint_auth_methods_supported :: list of supported auth methods for the token endpoint (contains "client_secret_basic" and "client_secret_post" by default).
oauth_grant_types_supported :: list of supported grant types.
oauth_response_types_supported :: list of supported response types.
oauth_response_modes_supported :: list of supported response modes.
oauth_valid_uri_schemes :: list of supported URI schemes for a client application's "redirect_uri", <tt>%w[https]</tt> by default.

oauth_applications_table :: the db table where oauth applications are stored, <tt>:oauth_applications</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_id_column :: the db column where the oauth application primary key is stored, <tt>:id</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_account_id_column :: the db column where the oauth application account ID it belongs to is stored, <tt>:account_id</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_name_column :: the db column where the oauth application name is stored, <tt>:name</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_description_column :: the db column where the oauth application description is stored, <tt>:description</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_scopes_column :: the db column where the oauth allowed scopes are stored, <tt>:scopes</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_client_id_column :: the db column where the oauth application client ID is stored, <tt>:client_id</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_client_secret_column :: the db column where the oauth application plaintext client secret is stored, <tt>:client_secret</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_client_secret_hash_column :: the db column where the oauth application hashed client secret is stored, <tt>:client_secret</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_redirect_uri_column :: the db column where the oauth application redirect URI is stored, <tt>:redirect_uri</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_homepage_url_column :: the db column where the oauth application homepage URL is stored, <tt>:homepage_url</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_contacts_column :: the db column where the oauth application contacts are stored, <tt>:contacts</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_grant_types_column :: the db column where the oauth application supported grant types are stored, <tt>:grant_types</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_response_types_column :: the db column where the oauth application supported response types are stored, <tt>:response_types</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_response_modes_column :: the db column where the oauth application supported response modes are stored, <tt>:response_modes</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_jwks_column :: the db column where the oauth application JSON Web Keys are stored, <tt>:jwks</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_jwks_uri_column :: the db column where the oauth application JSON Web Keys URI is stored, <tt>:jwks_uri</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_logo_uri_column :: the db column where the oauth application logo URL is stored, <tt>:logo_uri</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_policy_uri_column :: the db column where the oauth application policy URL is stored, <tt>:policy_uri</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_tos_uri_column :: the db column where the oauth application terms of service URL is stored, <tt>:tos_uri</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_software_id_column :: the db column where the oauth application software ID is stored, <tt>:software_id</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_software_version_column :: the db column where the oauth application software version is stored, <tt>:software_version</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_token_endpoint_auth_method_column :: the db column where the oauth application supported auth method for the token endpoint is stored, <tt>:software_id</tt> by default.


oauth_grants_table :: the db table where oauth grants are stored, <tt>:oauth_grants</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_id_column :: the db column where the oauth grant primary key is stored, <tt>:id</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_oauth_application_id_column :: the db column where the oauth grant oauth application ID is stored, <tt>:oauth_application_id</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_account_id_column :: the db column where the oauth grant account ID is stored, <tt>:account_id</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_type_column :: the db column where the grant type is stored, <tt>:type</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_code_column :: the db column where the oauth grant authorization code is stored, <tt>:code</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_redirect_uri_column :: the db column where the oauth grant redirect URI is stored, <tt>:redirect_uri</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_scopes_column :: the db column where the oauth grant scopes are stored, <tt>:scopes<tt> by default.
oauth_grants_expires_in_column :: the db column where the oauth grant expiration time is stored, <tt>:expires_in</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_revoked_at_column :: the db column where the oauth grant revocation time is stored, <tt>:revoked_at</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_token_column :: the db column where the oauth token access token is stored (when it's stored), <tt>:token</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_refresh_token_column :: the db column where the refresh token is stored, <tt>:refresh_token</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_token_hash_column :: the db column where the access token hash is stored, <tt>nil<tt> by default.
oauth_grants_refresh_token_hash_column :: the db column where the refresh token hash is stored, <tt>nil<tt> by default.
oauth_grants_unique_columns :: uniqueness index to use in ON CONFLICT queries (when supported).


json_response_content_type :: The content type to set for json responses, <tt>application/json</tt> by default.
json_request_regexp :: The regexp to retrieve a valid json content type.
oauth_authorization_required_error_status :: HTTP status code used for authorization errors, <tt>401</tt> by default.
oauth_invalid_response_status :: HTTP status code used for invalid responses, <tt>400</tt> by default.
oauth_already_in_use_response_status :: HTTP status code used for already in use responses, <tt>409</tt> by default.
only_json? :: whether the application responds only with json.

oauth_invalid_client_message :: error description for the "invalid_client" OAuth error code, <tt>"Invalid client"</tt> by default.
oauth_invalid_grant_type_message :: error description for the "invalid_grant_type" OAuth error code, <tt>"Invalid grant type"</tt> by default.
oauth_invalid_grant_type_error_code :: oauth error code for using invalid grants, <tt>"unsupported_grant_type"</tt> by default.
oauth_invalid_grant_message :: error description for the "invalid_grant" OAuth error code, <tt>"Invalid grant"</tt> by default.
oauth_invalid_scope_message :: error description for the "invalid_scope" OAuth error code, <tt>"Invalid scope"</tt> by default.
oauth_unsupported_token_type_message :: error description for the "unsupported_token_type" OAuth error code, <tt>"Invalid token type hint"</tt> by default.
oauth_already_in_use_error_code :: oauth error code for when a token is already in use, <tt>"invalid_request"</tt> by default.
oauth_already_in_use_message :: error description for the "already_in_use" OAuth error code.

oauth_metadata_service_documentation :: OAuth service documentation URL, <tt>nil</tt> by default.
oauth_metadata_ui_locales_supported :: UI locales supported in the OAuth journey, <tt>nil</tt> by default.
oauth_metadata_op_policy_uri :: OAuth use of data and client requirements URL, <tt>nil</tt> by default.
oauth_metadata_op_tos_uri :: OAuth terms of service, <tt>nil</tt> by default.

is_authorization_server? :: flag to signal whether it's an authorization server, <tt>true</tt> by default.

token_route :: the route for token generation, defaults to +token+.
before_token_route :: Run arbitrary code before the token route.
before_token :: Run arbitrary code before generating an access token.

fetch_access_token :: retrieves the access token from the request (defaults to fetching from the "Authorization" header).
oauth_unique_id_generator :: generates random base64 strings, used for raw access tokens, client IDs, etc.
oauth_unique_id_generation_retries :: max retries for token generation.
secret_matches? :: verifies if provided secret matches the application's client secret.
secret_hash :: calculates the hash  of a given client secret.
generate_token_hash :: hashes an access token (when the token hash is stored in the db).
authorization_server_url :: returns the authorization server origin URL.
oauth_reuse_access_token :: when true, it'll reuse the same access token for a given account/client application for each new verified grant.
require_authorizable_account :: requires the account to be logged in by default (calls `require_account`), can be overriden to add more functionality (i.e. requiring 2FA before authorization).

require_authorization_error_flash :: The flash error to display when authorization is required.
revoke_unauthorized_account_error_flash :: The flash error to display when an unauthorized account tries to revoke a token.

oauth_cancel_button :: button label which cancels the device verification.

http_request :: performs a GET http request to the given URL (or a POST with url-encoded body, if form data is passed)
http_request_cache :: store where http requests get cached according to the HTTP cache rules.