= Documentation for OAuth Device Grant feature

The +oauth_device_code_grant+ feature implements the OAuth 2.0 Device Authorization Grant.

https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/rfc8628

This feature depends on the oauth_authorize_base feature.

== Auth Value Methods

oauth_device_code_grant_polling_interval :: (default: 5) number of seconds client have to wait until nxt poll attempt;
oauth_device_code_grant_user_code_size :: (default: 8) size of generated user codes;

oauth_grants_user_code_column :: (default: :user_code) the column name where the user code is stored;
oauth_grants_last_polled_at_column :: (default: :last_polled_at) the column name where the timestamp from the last polling attempt for a verified grant via /token was made;

oauth_expired_token_message :: human-readable error message correspondent to the "expired_token" error code;
oauth_access_denied_message :: human-readable error message correspondent to the "access_denied" error code;
oauth_authorization_pending_message :: human-readable error message correspondent to the "authorization_pending" error code;
oauth_slow_down_message :: human-readable error message correspondent to the "slow_down" error code;

device_authorization_route :: the route for device authorization, defaults to +device-authorization+ (device code grant).
device_route :: the route for device verification, defaults to +device+ (device code grant).

device_search_page_title :: the page title from the device verification search page;
device_verification_page_title :: the page title from the device verification form page;
device_verification_notice_flash :: success message after verification;
device_verification_notice_flash :: the flash message after the device verification form is submitted;
user_code_not_found_error_flash :: the flash message when no grant is found for a user code;
oauth_grant_user_code_param :: (default: "user_code") the param which the OAuth device verification form needs to submit;
oauth_grant_user_code_label :: (default: "User code") the label for the field in the form described above;
oauth_device_search_button :: (default: "Search") the label of the submit button of the device grant device search form;
oauth_device_verification_button :: (default: "Verify") the label of the submit button of the device grant device verification form;

oauth_device_search_page_lead :: Lead text of the device search form.
oauth_device_verification_page_lead :: Lead text of the device verification form.

== Auth Methods

before_device_authorization_route :: Run arbitrary code before the device authorization route.
before_device_authorization :: Run arbitrary code before issuing the device grant (through the device authorization endpoint).
before_device_route :: Run arbitrary code before the device verification route.
before_device_verification :: Run arbitrary code before verifying the device grant (through the device verification endpoint).

device_search_view :: HTML device search form page;
device_verification_view :: HTML device verification page;

generate_user_code :: function which generates random user codes;
