= Documentation for OAuth feature

The oauth feature implements all necessary methods and endpoints in order to set up an authorization server. It alternatively can set up a resource server.

== Auth Value Methods



oauth_application_default_scope :: the scope that client applications will want, <tt>"profile.read"</tt> by default.
oauth_application_scopes :: default scopes to assign to a client application, <tt>["profile.read"]</tt> by default.
oauth_token_type :: type of the generated access token, <tt>"bearer"</tt> by default.
oauth_grant_expires_in :: The number of seconds an oauth grant is valid after creation, <tt>5 minutes</tt> by default.
oauth_token_expires_in :: The number of seconds an oauth token is valid after creation, <tt>5 minutes</tt> by default.
oauth_refresh_token_expires_in :: The number of seconds a refresh token is valid after creation, <tt>1 year</tt> by default.
use_oauth_implicit_grant_type? :: Whether implicit grant flow can be used, <tt>false</tt> by default.
use_oauth_device_code_grant_type? :: Whether device code grant flow can be used, <tt>false</tt> by default.
use_oauth_pkce? :: Whether PKCE is enabled, <tt>true</tt> by default.
use_oauth_access_type? :: Whether the "access_type" parameter is supported, <tt>true</tt> by default.
oauth_require_pkce :: Enforces usage of PKCE, <tt>false</tt> by default.
oauth_pkce_challenge_method :: challenge method used in PKCE flow, <tt>S256</tt> by default.
oauth_refresh_token_protection_policy :: protection policy for the refresh token (<tt>none</tt> by default).
oauth_response_mode :: default response mode (<tt>query</tt> by default).


oauth_applications_table :: the db table where oauth applications are stored, <tt>:oauth_applications</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_id_column :: the db column where the oauth application primary key is stored, <tt>:id</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_account_id_column :: the db column where the oauth application account ID it belongs to is stored, <tt>:account_id</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_name_column :: the db column where the oauth application name is stored, <tt>:name</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_description_column :: the db column where the oauth application description is stored, <tt>:description</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_scopes_column :: the db column where the oauth allowed scopes are stored, <tt>:scopes</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_client_id_column :: the db column where the oauth application client ID is stored, <tt>:client_id</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_client_secret_column :: the db column where the oauth application hashed client secret to is stored, <tt>:client_secret</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_redirect_uri_column :: the db column where the oauth application redirect URI to is stored, <tt>:redirect_uri</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_homepage_url_column :: the db column where the oauth application homepage URL to is stored, <tt>:homepage_url</tt> by default.


oauth_tokens_table :: the db table where oauth tokens are stored, <tt>:oauth_tokens</tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_id_column :: the db column where the oauth token primary key is stored, <tt>:id</tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_oauth_application_id_column :: the db column where the oauth token oauth application ID is stored, <tt>:oauth_application_id</tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_oauth_token_id_column :: the db column where the oauth token's other token ID is stored, <tt>:oauth_token_id</tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_oauth_grant_id_column :: the db column where the oauth token oauth grant ID is stored, <tt>:oauth_grant_id</tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_account_id_column :: the db column where the oauth token account ID is stored, <tt>:account_id</tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_scopes_column :: the db column where the oauth token scopes are stored, <tt>:scopes</tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_token_column :: the db column where the oauth token access token is stored (when it's stored), <tt>:token</tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_refresh_token_column :: the db column where the oauth token refresh token is stored, <tt>:refresh_token</tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_token_hash_column :: the db column where the oauth token access token hash is stored, <tt>nil<tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_refresh_token_hash_column :: the db column where the oauth token refresh token hash is stored, <tt>nil<tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_expires_in_column :: the db column where the oauth token expiration time is stored, <tt>:expires_in</tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_revoked_at_column :: the db column where the oauth token revocation time is stored, <tt>:revoked_at</tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_unique_columns :: uniqueness index to use in ON CONFLICT queries (when supported).

oauth_grants_table :: the db table where oauth grants are stored, <tt>:oauth_grants</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_id_column :: the db column where the oauth grant primary key is stored, <tt>:id</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_oauth_application_id_column :: the db column where the oauth grant oauth application ID is stored, <tt>:oauth_application_id</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_account_id_column :: the db column where the oauth grant account ID is stored, <tt>:account_id</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_code_column :: the db column where the oauth grant authorization code is stored, <tt>:code</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_redirect_uri_column :: the db column where the oauth grant redirect URI is stored, <tt>:redirect_uri</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_scopes_column :: the db column where the oauth grant scopes are stored, <tt>:scopes<tt> by default.
oauth_grants_access_type_column :: the db column where the oauth grant access type is stored, <tt>:access_type<tt> by default.
oauth_grants_expires_in_column :: the db column where the oauth grant expiration time is stored, <tt>:expires_in</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_revoked_at_column :: the db column where the oauth grant revocation time is stored, <tt>:revoked_at</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_code_challenge_column :: the db column where the oauth grant PKCE code challenge is stored, <tt>:code_challenge</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_code_challenge_method_column :: the db column where the oauth grant PKCE code challenge method is stored, <tt>:code_challenge_method</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_user_code_column :: the db column where the user code is stored, <tt>:user_code</tt> by default (device code grant only).
oauth_grants_last_polled_at_column :: the db column where the timestamp grant was polled is stored, <tt>:last_polled_at</tt> by default (device code grant only).


json_response_content_type :: The content type to set for json responses, <tt>application/json</tt> by default.
json_request_regexp :: The regexp to retrieve a valid json content type.
authorization_required_error_status :: HTTP status code used for authorization errors, <tt>401</tt> by default.
invalid_oauth_response_status :: HTTP status code used for invalid responses, <tt>400</tt> by default.
already_in_use_response_status :: HTTP status code used for already in use responses, <tt>409</tt> by default.
only_json? :: whether the application responds only with json.


oauth_valid_uri_schemes :: list of support URI schemes for a client application's "redirect_uri", <tt>%w[https]</tt> by default.
oauth_scope_separator :: character used to separate scopes in the db field value, white-space by default.
oauth_application_required_params :: fields required when submitting a new client application, <tt>%w[name description scopes homepage_url redirect_uri client_secret]</tt> by default.
oauth_application_client_id_param: form parameter for a client application client id, <tt>client_id</tt> by default.
oauth_application_client_secret_param: form parameter for a client application client secret, <tt>client_secret</tt> by default.
oauth_application_redirect_uri_param: form parameter for a client application redirect URI, <tt>redirect_uri</tt> by default.
oauth_application_name_param: form parameter for a client application name, <tt>name</tt> by default.
oauth_application_description_param: form parameter for a client application description, <tt>description</tt> by default.
oauth_application_scopes_param: form parameter for a client application scopes, <tt>scopes</tt> by default.
oauth_application_homepage_url_param: form parameter for a client application homepage URL, <tt>homepage_url</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_id_pattern :: pattern matcher to retrieve the client application ID from the URL, <tt>Integer</tt> by default (must respond to "match".
oauth_application_path :: URL sub-path used for a client application view.
oauth_applications_oauth_tokens_path :: URL sub-path used for a client application's oauth tokens views, <tt>"oauth-tokens"</tt> by default.
oauth_tokens_path :: URL path used for a client's oauth tokens views, <tt>"oauth-tokens"</tt> by default.


invalid_client_message :: error description for the "invalid_client" OAuth error code, <tt>"Invalid client"</tt> by default.
invalid_grant_type_message :: error description for the "invalid_grant_type" OAuth error code, <tt>"Invalid grant type"</tt> by default.
invalid_grant_message :: error description for the "invalid_grant" OAuth error code, <tt>"Invalid grant"</tt> by default.
invalid_scope_message :: error description for the "invalid_scope" OAuth error code, <tt>"Invalid scope"</tt> by default.
invalid_url_message :: error description for the "invalid_url" OAuth error code, <tt>"Invalid URL"</tt> by default.
unsupported_token_type_message :: error description for the "unsupported_token_type" OAuth error code, <tt>"Invalid token type hint"</tt> by default.
unique_error_message :: error description for the "unique_error" OAuth error code, <tt>"is already in use"</tt> by default.
null_error_message :: error description for the "null_error" OAuth error code, <tt>"is not filled"</tt> by default.
code_challenge_required_error_code :: oauth error code for when PKCE code challenge is required, <tt>"invalid_request"</tt> by default.
code_challenge_required_message :: error description for the "code challenge required" OAuth error code, <tt>"code challenge required"</tt> by default.
unsupported_transform_algorithm_error_code :: oauth error code for when the PKCE transform algorithm is unsupported, <tt>"invalid_request"</tt> by default.
unsupported_transform_algorithm_message :: error description for the PKCE "unsupported transform algorithm" OAuth error code, <tt>"transform algorithm not supported"</tt> by default.
already_in_use_error_code :: oauth error code for when a token is already in use, <tt>"invalid_request"</tt> by default.
already_in_use_message :: error description for the "already_in_use" OAuth error code.
expired_token_message :: human-readable error message correspondent to the "expired_token" error code;
access_denied_message :: human-readable error message correspondent to the "access_denied" error code;
authorization_pending_message :: human-readable error message correspondent to the "authorization_pending" error code;
slow_down_message :: human-readable error message correspondent to the "slow_down" error code;

oauth_metadata_service_documentation :: OAuth service documentation URL, <tt>nil</tt> by default.
oauth_metadata_ui_locales_supported :: UI locales supported in the OAuth journey, <tt>nil</tt> by default.
oauth_metadata_op_policy_uri :: OAuth use of data and client requirements URL, <tt>nil</tt> by default.
oauth_metadata_op_tos_uri :: OAuth terms of service, <tt>nil</tt> by default.

is_authorization_server? :: flag to signal whether it's an authorization server, <tt>true</tt> by default.

authorize_page_title :: Title of authorize form page.
new_oauth_application_page_title :: Title for the new OAuth application form.
oauth_application_page_title :: Title for an OAuth application page.
oauth_applications_page_title :: Title for the OAuth applications page.
oauth_application_oauth_tokens_page_title :: Title for the OAuth tokens page for a given application.
oauth_tokens_page_title :: Title for the client OAuth tokens page.
oauth_applications_client_id_label :: Form label for the oauth application client ID.
oauth_applications_name_label :: Form label for the oauth application name.
oauth_applications_client_secret_label :: Form label for the oauth application client secret.
oauth_applications_description_label :: Form label for the oauth application description.
oauth_applications_homepage_url_label :: Form label for the oauth application homepage URL.
oauth_applications_redirect_uri_label :: Form label for the oauth application redirect URI.
oauth_applications_scopes_label :: Form label for the oauth application scopes.

oauth_tokens_expires_in_label :: Label for the oauth token expires in property.
oauth_tokens_refresh_token_label :: Label for the oauth token refresh token.
oauth_tokens_revoked_at_label :: Label for the oauth token revocation date.
oauth_tokens_scopes_label :: Label for the oauth token scopes.
oauth_tokens_token_label :: Label for the oauth token.

oauth_application_button :: Label of OAuth application form button.
oauth_authorize_button :: Label of Authorize form button.
oauth_authorize_post_button :: Label of post-authorize form button.
oauth_token_revoke_button :: Label for the token revoke button.
oauth_application_client_id_param :: Form input for the oauth application client ID.
oauth_application_client_secret_param :: Form input for the oauth application client secert.
oauth_application_description_param :: Form input for the oauth application description.
oauth_application_homepage_url_param :: Form input for the oauth application homepage URL.
oauth_application_name_param :: Form input for the oauth application name.
oauth_application_redirect_uri_param :: Form input for the oauth application redirect URI.
oauth_application_scopes_param :: Form input for the oauth application scopes.

authorize_route :: the route for the authorize action, defaults to +authorize+.
token_route :: the route for token generation, defaults to +token+.
revoke_route :: the route for revoking access tokens, defaults to +revoke+.
introspect_route :: the route for introspecting access tokens, defaults to +introspect+.
oauth_applications_route :: the route for accessing oauth applications, defaults to +oauth-applications+.
device_authorization_route :: the route for device authorization, defaults to +device-authorization+ (device code grant).
device_route :: the route for device verification, defaults to +device+ (device code grant).

== Auth Methods

fetch_access_token :: retrieves the access token from the request (defaults to fetching from the "Authorization" header).
oauth_unique_id_generator :: generates random base64 strings, used for raw access tokens, client IDs, etc.
oauth_unique_id_generation_retries :: max retries for token generation.
secret_matches? :: verifies if provided secret matches the application's client secret.
secret_hash :: calculates the hash  of a given client secret.
generate_token_hash :: hashes an access token (when the token hash is stored in the db).
authorization_server_url :: returns the authorization server origin URL.
before_introspection_request :: called before introspecting on a given access token (resource server only).
oauth_reuse_access_token :: when true, it'll reuse the same access token for a given account/client application for each new verified grant.
require_authorizable_account :: requires the account to be logged in by default (calls `require_account`), can be overriden to add more functionality (i.e. requiring 2FA before authorization).

before_authorize_route :: Run arbitrary code before the authorize route.
before_token_route :: Run arbitrary code before the token route.
before_revoke_route :: Run arbitrary code before the revoke route.
before_introspect_route :: Run arbitrary code before the introspect route.

before_device_authorization_route :: Run arbitrary code before the device authorization route.
before_device_route :: Run arbitrary code before the device verification route.

before_authorize :: Run arbitrary code before executing an "authorize" endpoint.
after_authorize :: Run arbitrary code after authorizing a request.

before_token :: Run arbitrary code before generating an access token.

before_revoke :: Run arbitrary code before revoking a token.
after_revoke :: Run arbitrary code after after revoking a token.

before_introspect :: Run arbitrary code before introspecting a tokne.

before_create_oauth_application :: Run arbitrary code before creating an oauth application (through the application endpoint).
after_create_oauth_application :: Run arbitrary code after creating an oauth application (through the application endpoint).

before_device_authorization :: Run arbitrary code before issuing the device grant (through the device authorization endpoint).
before_device_verification :: Run arbitrary code before verifying the device grant (through the device verification endpoint).

authorize_view :: The HTML of the Authorize form.
oauth_applications_view :: The HTML of the Oauth applications dashboard.
oauth_tokens_application_view :: The HTML of the Oauth tokens dashboard for a given application.
oauth_application_view :: The HTML of an Oauth application page.
new_oauth_application_view :: The HTML of a new Oauth application form.
oauth_tokens_view :: The HTML of the Oauth tokens dashboard for the logged in account.

require_authorization_error_flash :: The flash error to display when authorization is required.
create_oauth_application_error_flash :: The flash error to display when there were submission errors creating an Oauth application.
revoke_unauthorized_account_error_flash :: The flash error to display when an unauthorized account tries to revoke a token.
create_oauth_application_notice_flash :: The flash message to display when an Oauth application is created successfully.
revoke_oauth_token_notice_flash :: The flash message to display when an access token has been revoked.

== Device code grant methods

device_verification_notice_flash :: success message after verification;
device_search_view :: HTML device search form page;
device_verification_view :: HTML device verification page;
oauth_device_code_grant_polling_interval :: (default: 5) number of seconds client have to wait until nxt poll attempt;
oauth_device_code_grant_user_code_size :: (default: 8) size of generated user codes;
oauth_grant_user_code_param :: (default: "user_code") the param which the OAuth device verification form needs to submit;
oauth_grant_user_code_label :: (default: "User code") the label for the field in the form described above;
oauth_device_search_button :: (default: "Search") the label of the submit button of the device grant device search form;
oauth_device_verification_button :: (default: "Verify") the label of the submit button of the device grant device verification form;
oauth_cancel_button :: button label which cancels the device verification;
oauth_grants_user_code_column :: (default: :user_code) the column name where the user code is stored;
oauth_grants_last_polled_at_column :: (default: :last_polled_at) the column name where the timestamp from the last polling attempt for a verified grant via /token was made;
generate_user_code :: function which generates random user codes;
device_search_page_title :: the page title from the device verification search page;
device_verification_page_title :: the page title from the device verification form page;
device_verification_notice_flash :: the flash message after the device verification form is submitted;
user_code_not_found_error_flash :: the flash message when no grant is found for a user code;
