= Documentation for OAuth DPoP feature

The oauth_dpop feature implements the OAuth 2.0 Demonstrating Proof-of-Possession at the Application Layer (DPoP) protocol.

https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/html/draft-ietf-oauth-dpop

This feature depends on the oauth_authorize_base and oauth_jwt features.

== Auth Value Methods

oauth_invalid_token_error_response_status :: HTTP status code used for invalid token error responses, <tt>401</tt> by default.
oauth_multiple_auth_methods_response_status :: HTTP status code used for using multiple auth methods, <tt>401</tt> by default.
oauth_access_token_dpop_bound_response_status :: HTTP status code when a dpop-bound access token without the DPoP proof, <tt>401</tt> by default.

oauth_invalid_dpop_proof_message :: Error description for using an invalid DPoP proof.
oauth_multiple_auth_methods_message :: Error description for using multiple auth methods.
oauth_multiple_dpop_proofs_message :: Error description for using multiple DPoP proofs.
oauth_invalid_dpop_jkt_message :: Error description when not able to verify the access token JKT.
oauth_invalid_dpop_jti_message :: Error description for invalid DPoP jti.
oauth_invalid_dpop_htm_message :: Error description for invalid DPoP htm.
oauth_invalid_dpop_htu_message :: Error description for invalid DPoP htu.
oauth_access_token_dpop_bound_message :: Error description for using an invalid DPoP proof.
oauth_invalid_dpop_proof_message :: Error description for using an access token without the DPOP proof.
oauth_use_dpop_nonce_message :: Error description when DPop nonce is required.

oauth_multiple_dpop_proofs_error_code :: Error code for using an invalid DPoP proof, <tt>invalid_request</tt> by default.
oauth_invalid_dpop_jkt_error_code :: Error code when not able to verify the access token JKT, <tt>invalid_dpop_proof</tt> by default.
oauth_invalid_dpop_jti_error_code :: Error code for invalid DPoP jti, <tt>invalid_dpop_proof</tt> by default.
oauth_invalid_dpop_htm_error_code :: Error code for invalid DPoP htm, <tt>invalid_dpop_proof</tt> by default.
oauth_invalid_dpop_htm_error_code :: Error code for invalid DPoP htu, <tt>invalid_dpop_proof</tt> by default.

oauth_dpop_proof_expires_in :: the time (in seconds) a DPoP proof can be used after first use, 5 minutes by default.
oauth_dpop_bound_access_tokens :: whether only DPoP-bound access tokens are accepted, defaults to <tt>false</tt>.
oauth_use_dpop_nonce :: wheter nonces are required on DPoP proofs, defaults to <tt>false</tt>.
oauth_dpop_nonce_expires_in :: the time (in seconds) a server-generated nonce is valid after creation, 5 minutes by default.
oauth_dpop_signing_alg_values_supported :: Supported JWS algorithms for signing DPoP headers.
oauth_applications_dpop_bound_par_requests :: Boolean value indicating if the DPoP should be bound to pushed authorization requests. Defaults to false.
logger :: Logger instance used for logging. Defaults to Logger.new(STDOUT).


oauth_applications_dpop_bound_access_tokens_column :: DB column storing whether DPoP-bound access tokens are required for a client application, <tt>:dpop_bound_access_tokens</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_dpop_jkt_column :: DB column for storing DPoP JKT for the oauth grants, <tt>:dpop_jkt</tt> by default.
oauth_pushed_authorization_requests_dpop_jkt_column :: DB column for storing the DPoP JKT for PAR requests, <tt>:dpop_jkt</tt> by default.
oauth_dpop_proofs_table :: DB table where to store first use of DPoP proofs, <tt>:oauth_dpop_proofs_table</tt> by default.
oauth_dpop_proofs_jti_column :: DB column where to store DPoP proof JTI, <tt>:jti</tt> by default.
oauth_dpop_proofs_first_use_column :: DB column where to store the timestamp of first use of the DPoP , <tt>:oauth_dpop_proofs_first_use_column</tt> by default.

== Value Methods

* validate_dpop_proof_usage :: function which verifies correct usage of DPoP proofs. Can be override to disable the procedure, or customize to p.ex. use a different data store.
