= Documentation for OAuth JWT Base feature

The +oauth_jwt_base+ feature provides functions for dealing with JWT (signing, encryption, encoding/decoding).

== Value Methods

oauth_jwt_subject_type :: JWT subject claim type, <tt>"public"</tt> by default.
oauth_jwt_subject_secret :: hashing secret to use when subject claim type is "pairwise", <tt>nil</tt> by default.
oauth_jwt_issuer :: JWT issuer claim, returns the authorization server url by default.
oauth_jwt_audience :: JWT audience claim, returns the authorization server token url by default.
oauth_applications_jwt_public_key_label :: Form label for the oauth application client application public key.
oauth_application_jwt_public_key_param :: Form param for the oauth application client application public key.
oauth_application_jwks_param :: Form param for the oauth application client application JSON Web Keys.
oauth_applications_jwt_public_key_column :: db column where to store an oauth application's publid key, used for verifying JWT tokens, <tt>:jwt_public_key</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_subject_type_column :: db column where to store the type of subject claim used for the oauth application, <tt>:subject_type</tt> by default.
oauth_jwt_keys :: collection of the auth server signing keys indexed by algo (**must** include <tt>oauth_jwt_key</tt> unless nil).
oauth_jwt_public_keys :: collection of the auth server public signing keys, which will be exposed in the JWKs endpoint.
oauth_jwt_jwe_keys :: collection of the auth server encryption keys indexed by algo/method tuple (**must** include <tt>oauth_jwe_key</tt> unless nil).
oauth_jwt_jwe_public_keys :: collection of the auth server public encryption keys, which will be exposed in the JWKs endpoint.
oauth_jwt_jwe_copyright :: copyright line to add in case JWT tokens are JWE-encrypted, <tt>nil</tt> by default (`ruby-jwe` only).

== Auth methods

jwt_encode :: encodes a given JWT token.
jwt_decode :: decodes a given JWT token.
generate_jti :: generates a unique jti claimm.
