= Documentation for Open ID Connect feature

The +oidc+ feature builds on top of the oauth_jwt feature to implement an OpenID Connect identity provider.

== Value Methods

oauth_jwt_subject_type :: JWT subject claim type, <tt>"public"</tt> by default.
oauth_jwt_subject_secret :: hashing secret to use when subject claim type is "pairwise", <tt>nil</tt> by default.

oauth_application_scopes :: overwrites the default to <tt>["openid"]</tt>.
oauth_grants_nonce_column :: db column where an authorization nonce is stored, <tt>:nonce</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_acr_column :: db column where an authorization acr values are stored, <tt>:acr</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_claims_locales_column :: db column where an authorization claims locales are stored, <tt>:claims_locales</tt> by default.
oauth_grants_claims_column :: db column where an authorization claims are stored, <tt>:claims</tt> by default.

oauth_applications_application_type_column :: db colummn where the application type is stored.
oauth_applications_sector_identifier_uri_column :: db colummn where the sector identifier uri is stored.
oauth_applications_initiate_login_uri_column :: db colummn where the initiate login uri is stored.
oauth_applications_subject_type_column :: db column where to store the type of subject claim used for the oauth application, <tt>:subject_type</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_id_token_encrypted_response_alg_column :: db column where to store the encryption algorithm used for the id token for the oauth application, <tt>:id_token_encrypted_response_alg</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_id_token_encrypted_response_enc_column :: db column where to store the encryption method used for the id token for the oauth application, <tt>:id_token_encrypted_response_enc</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_id_token_signed_response_alg_column :: db column where to store the signing algorithm used for the id token for the oauth application, <tt>:id_token_signed_response_alg</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_userinfo_encrypted_response_alg_column :: db column where to store the encryption algorithm used for the userinfo response payload for the oauth application, <tt>:userinfo_encrypted_response_alg</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_userinfo_encrypted_response_enc_column :: db column where to store the encryption method used for the userinfo response payload for the oauth application, <tt>:userinfo_encrypted_response_enc</tt> by default.
oauth_applications_userinfo_signed_response_alg_column :: db column where to store the signing algorithm used for the userinfo response payload for the oauth application, <tt>:userinfo_signed_response_alg</tt> by default.

oauth_invalid_scope_message :: overwrites the default to <tt>"The Access Token expired"</tt>

userinfo_route :: the route for the userinfo action, defaults to +userinfo+.

== Auth methods

userinfo_signing_alg_values_supported :: Supported JWS algorithms for signing userinfo response (when JWT-serialized).
userinfo_encryption_alg_values_supported :: Supported JWE algorithms for encrypting userinfo response (when JWT-serialized).
userinfo_encryption_enc_values_supported :: Supported JWE encryption methods for encrypting userinfo response (when JWT-serialized).
request_object_signing_alg_values_supported :: Supported JWS algorithms for signing request objects sent to the provider.
request_object_encryption_alg_values_supported :: Supported JWE algorithms for encrypting request objects sent to the provider.
request_object_encryption_enc_values_supported :: Supported JWE encryption methods for encrypting request objects sent to the provider.

oauth_acr_values_supported :: list of ACR values supported by the provider

fill_with_account_claims :: adds normals claims ("name", "given_name"...); can be overriden to add aggregated and distributed claims.
get_oidc_param :: returns the value for an OpenID connect claim (such as "email", "name", "phone_number", etc...)
get_additional_param :: sets the values for additional scopes.
get_oidc_account_last_login_at :: returns the timestamp for an account's last login (used to get the `"auth_time"` OIDC claim)
oidc_authorize_on_prompt_none? :: whether to allow authorization when "prompt=none", <tt>false</tt> by default.

oauth_prompt_login_cookie_key :: try prompt cookie key.
oauth_prompt_login_cookie_options :: prompt cookie options.
oauth_prompt_login_interval :: prompt cookie lifetime.

require_acr_value_phr :: called before authorization request if "phr" in acr values, will request 2-factor authentication if any such `rodauth` feature is loaded.
require_acr_value_phrh :: called before authorization request if "phrh" in acr values, will request webauthn authentication if `webauthn` feature from rodauth is loaded.
require_acr_value :: called before authorization request with each acr value, does nothing by default.
json_webfinger_payload :: returns the JSON payload from the webfinger response.

before_userinfo_route :: Run arbitrary code before the userinfo route.
